
<h1 align="center">DNA </h1>
<h4 align="center">Version 2.0 </h4>

English | [中文](README_CN.md)

Welcome to the official source code repository for DNA!

DNA is dedicated to developing a high-performance blockchain infrastructure, which is customizable to different business requirements. 

Prerequisites for getting started with development on the DNA networks are:

- Mainstream coding and development experience
- Understanding of your business scenario/requirements
- No need for previous blockchain engineering experience

The DNA core tech team, the community, and the ecosystem can all support you in development. MainNet, TestNet, Docker image for DNA, SmartX, and DNA Explorer combined make it easy to start.

DNA makes getting started easier!

And new features are still rapidly under development. The master branch may be unstable, but stable versions can be found under the [release page](https://github.com/dnaproject2/DNA/releases).

We openly welcome developers to DNA.

## Features 

- Scalable lightweight universal smart contract
- Scalable WASM contract support
- Crosschain interactive protocol (processing)
- Multiple encryption algorithm support
- Highly optimized transaction processing speed
- P2P link layer encryption (optional module)
- Multiple consensus algorithm support (VBFT/DBFT/RBFT/SBFT/PoW)
- Quick block generation time


## Contents

- [Build development environment](#build-development-environment)
- [Get DNA](#get-DNA)
    - [Get from release](#get-from-release)
    - [Get from source code](#get-from-source-code)
- [Run DNA](#run-DNA)
    - [Testmode](#testmode)
- [Some examples](#some-example)
    - [Query transaction status sample](#query-transaction-status-sample)
- [Contributions](#contributions)
- [License](#license)

## Build development environment
The requirements to build DNA are:

- Golang version 1.9 or later
- Glide (a third party package management tool)
- Properly configured Go language environment
- Golang supported operating system

## Get DNA

### Get from release

- You can download other versions at [release page](https://github.com/dnaproject2/DNA/releases).

### Get from source code

Clone the DNA repository into the appropriate $GOPATH/src/github.com/dnaproject2 directory.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/dnaproject2/DNA.git
```
or
```
$ go get github.com/dnaproject2/DNA
```
Fetch the dependent third party packages with glide.

```
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/dnaproject2/DNA
$ glide install
```

If necessary, update dependent third party packages with glide.

```
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/dnaproject2/DNA
$ glide update
```

Build the source code with make.

```
$ make all
```

After building the source code sucessfully, you should see two executable programs:

- `DNA`: the node program/command line program for node control.
- `tools/sigsvr`: (optional) DNA Signature Server - sigsvr is a RPC server for signing transactions for some special requirements. Detailed docs can be found [here](https://github.com/dnaproject2/documentation/blob/master/docs/pages/doc_en/DNA/sigsvr_en.md).

## Run DNA

### Testmode

Create a directory on the host and store the following files in the directory:
- Node program `DNA`
- Executor file `executor.dat` (`executor.dat` can be generated by `./DNA account add -d`)

Run command `$ ./DNA --testmode` can start single-host testnet.

Here's a example of a single-host configuration:

- Directory structure

    ```shell
    $ tree
    └── DNA
        ├── DNA
        └── executor.dat
    ```

## Some examples

### Query transaction status sample

```shell
./DNA info status <TxHash>
```

For Example:

```shell
./DNA info status 10dede8b57ce0b272b4d51ab282aaf0988a4005e980d25bd49685005cc76ba7f
```

Result:

```shell
Transaction:transfer success
From:AXkDGfr9thEqWmCKpTtQYaazJRwQzH48eC
To:AYiToLDT2yZuNs3PZieXcdTpyC5VWQmfaN
Amount:10
```

## Contributions

Please open a pull request with a signed commit. We appreciate your help! You can also send your code as email to the developer mailing list. You're welcome to join the DNA mailing list or developer forum.

Please provide a detailed submission information when you want to contribute code for this project. The format is as follows:

Header line: Explain the commit in one line (use the imperative).

Body of commit message is a few lines of text, explaining things in more detail, possibly giving some background about the issue being fixed, etc.

The body of the commit message can be several paragraphs. Please do proper word-wrap and keep columns shorter than 74 characters or so. That way "git log" will show things  nicely even when it is indented.

Make sure you explain your solution and why you are doing what you are doing, as opposed to describing what you are doing. Reviewers and your future self can read the patch, but might not understand why a particular solution was implemented.

Reported-by: whoever-reported-it +
Signed-off-by: Your Name [youremail@yourhost.com](mailto:youremail@yourhost.com)

## License

DNA is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See LICENSE for the full license text.
